so welcome students have you signed in I
think so people be supposed to be event
typicality Podesta let's go in there Tom
I am here yes yes sir here you go I went
to present so the lesson is about
probably three diagrams but first of all
what is hmm the chance of something will
happen another word chance it's it's a
way of assigning a value to how likely
something is so it's like you have two
things that could happen and you're like
is this one more likely oh is this one
only that's kind of probability like
figuring out you're probably right
[Music]
during the fun thing so I've got cards
that I've prepared that blue Peter Susan
and Tom your names on it so who wants to
play first and now you have to try and
guess which pile Susan so what's the
chance of you getting that correct is
she correct unfortunately no you go home
do I get a prize yes you get a prize if
you can tell me what is underneath this
car it's got me Susan do you mean you
haven't tricked us
so what why do we know that had to be
Susan there were two possible outcomes
each with probability of 1/2 I mean it
wasn't that one so had to be that won't
because I want to be ruled out exactly
so now we're gonna look under the tree
diagram aspect and that's when we have
one event followed by another event so
how many are we gonna get five five how
many times
I'm gonna guess by I hope that's fine
okay fine
but for five seasons and gee Tom's yes
so if again I turn the world upside down
mix them up what's the chance of picking
let's say Susan first of all yeah yeah I
agree I'm in the chance of picking Tom
it's got to be three out of the eight
yeah so if we can actually represent
this in something that's called a tree
diagram Susan and Tom so we said the
chance of picking Susan was five out of
eight okay
the chance of picking Tom three out of
eight
so we can leave it at that but no this
funfair so fun we get a second chance of
playing the game alright so if we pick
the Susan let's say what's it so imagine
we pick Susan yes but then we put it
back in the pile
oh what a chance of picking Susan a
second yes still five yeah and the
chance of picking in Tom well there are
still three out of a total of eight so
sync for three out of eight the imagine
we'd pick Tom the first time yeah and
then again replace the back what's the
chance of picking Tom again it's the
same because we put it back yes
so it's still three there are still
three Tom's okay where do you think we
could develop this we know then what
information can we gather from here if
you go twice there's getting these are
the outcomes so if you pick Susan first
time round and we put it back in is that
independent or dependent because because
we because we put it back that's that's
the key thing yeah so you've got five
out of eight for the first event finally
the second event because it'll
independent what do we do to the pole
booze and trying to work on the chance
of getting to Susan's
there's my brother Newtons good and then
for Susan and Tom that would be 5 over 8
times 3 over 8 supposed to mean 1564
this one comes in the same and the last
one and there was a final check if you
wanted to see that your probabilities
were correctly calculated what can we do
the total has to be 1 yeah oh yeah
yeah and little has to be maybe some
addition 25 plus 15 40 40 40 for fifteen
fifty five thirty five plus nine sixty
why nailed it correct
[Music]
I'm not a vegetable before your great
explanation about puppies trees it was
really good to kind of see the diagrams
here works you focused on taking taking
a name and replacing it sorry so the
property sort of denominates stay the
same
I've got something from geogebra which
is an interactive thing which shows what
happens when you do not replace the
thing you've taken and see how the
probabilities change okay so we need
your phone and then I think you should
be able to see an image of a bag mmm-hmm
yep and inside the back what you have
red balls and blue balls I mean you have
two blue ones and example yes there's a
thing that says show probably to make
sure it's often don't want you to show
the probability I'm going to talk
through how it works right so can you
see there's a thing there's a slider
which has step 0 yeah right so before we
do this light thing what are the options
that we can have based on what we told
us yeah we've got nine balls total mhm
two of them are blue so do you mean like
the probability of getting a blue one
yeah two out of nine copies of getting a
red one for there's seven yeah seven out
of nine so if we scroll across you
should get two branches to a tree yeah
if you keep kind of going little bit
also showing you the fact that you can
have a blue or red oh yeah there we go
yeah and yeah fresh show probability it
should say exactly what you just said
yes yeah you go to nine seven nine okay
yeah there we go right so now if you
wants to take this there's another ball
and what the different options we can
have so the top runs we've picked blue
first yeah but there's still another
blue left yep so it's still blue all
right so go ahead and how many balls and
total nutbag
we've won reducers we've taken one up
yes so it's normally in that would be
hey hey okay
and so now you've got
rate is a movement total most
possibility of getting one taking on
blew out that's gonna be one out of
eight if we've already taken a blue X
lives on that top branch yeah it should
be 1 out of 8 and then for the bottom
brought to that first part it should be
then 7 out of 8 we look at the second
part that brought me to a readout on the
second part
what's hability of picking a red with
slub 8 as a denominator yes we're now
taking one away
but the vegetable to reduce yourself so
we're introduced by how much we've taken
one red we started with seven so six so
six out of eight and then for the blue
you were to pick a blue once you've
already picked one event so now there's
only one blue left and there's eight in
total well that's two blue two blue this
is taking the red on the first one so if
we yeah if we take the red first they're
still two blues that one hasn't changed
it to six out of eight for the Reds and
two out of eight blue for the blue yeah
your tree diagram should sort of show
that yeah we got blue blue blue red red
blue red red yeah nice and with this you
can change the number of balls in total
if you look at the top you can scroll
and make your ball total less can you
see that you can also change the number
of blue balls as well yeah and you can
play around and see what what
differences there might be they're very
fun yeah something to kind of mess
around this when you're not replacing
yeah awesome
[Music]
Thank You mr. seagull for introducing us
to probability trees
I'm gonna take your fantastic lesson I'm
going to turn it to an application of
the FA Cup quarter-final
I feel like eighteen eight teams and
what we want to do is we're going to do
the FA Cup draw so you draw a home to
first and then you draw your waiting
what we want to know is what is going to
be the probability that a team from the
northwest of England plays a team from
London okay okay wait so that is the
question right so looking at the eight
options that we have going to test your
football / geography knowledge how many
of these are from the Northwest well I
didn't let me see three first ones of
the Northeast yeah does anyone from
North East
very much oh my good man United never
teams from the nose
so when we do when we draw our first
team we have actually here three
possible options we can have a team from
the Northwest team from London or so
we've got so this one is gonna be the
Northwest this is so for the first team
that we draw yep
how many of them are not West so what is
the probability for out of eight right
so remembering what we want to calculate
mm-hmm the probability we have if we
draw other can we exactly
we can't there's nothing we do can we
draw because it's two teams in match yes
I'm gonna happen in this fixture with
this one across yeah but if we draw a
Northwest team for the first of all yeah
now what options do we have
Northwest London for a successful one so
go another three again homie country so
if we withdrawn a Northwest team how
many Northwest teams are left 3 3 so
this is different - Bobby's example
because we're not replacing yeah the
names this time the FA Cup draw once
you're out you're out
yeah so here there are three left and
how many out of seven seventies again we
haven't already drawn one team three out
of seven a Northwest London could you
already pick northwestern apart you've
got three London left yeah just another
semi yeah
and this one's already dead so you care
about that one
then here yeah we've got a London team
yeah so we're still alive yeah we've got
three possibilities again if we're going
to get a Northwest team how many are
left Bobby the stool for there's still
four out of seven
Susan London taking on a birdies there's
two left right so that is pretty much it
so which ones are we interested in we
want Northwest versus London yes all
right so the first plane you pick a
Northwest and then you pick alone that's
four over eight and three over six of
this one no yep and you told me that was
for perfect
yes can we if we pick a Northwest here
is there anything else that we can
happen to get what you want is two so we
know what those against Northwestern or
first against although that's not funded
good now Bobby
we picked a London yeah now neither
Northwest team will go it's gonna be
four hours can any of you the to give us
so what is gonna be our total so it'd be
four over eight times three over seven
times the numerator is 4 times 3 is 12
and 8 times 7 3 times 4 is 12
ma anytime seven total probability
together 24 over 56 all right which is
equal to cancel yes magnitude 8 Oh
jumping sorry anything so the
probability you know FA Cup draw of a
London team playing a Northwest team
voice-off oh it's real nice application
went there I like it I think
[Music]